In cases where multiple races are recorded for a person an algorithm (NCHS defined) is used to select a single race from the 'bridged race' codes. The goal is to provide race statistics that are comparable with those used historically to facilitate time series analysis. The goal is to maintain consistency between data collected after the definitional change (allowing collection of multiple races and ethnicities) and that collected prior to that time. This intent is to maintain the integrity of time series (data collected from a range of time periods) reporting.

Race bridging refers to making data collected using one set of race categories consistent with data collected using a different set of race categories, to permit estimation and comparison of race-specific statistics at a point in time or over time. More specifically, race bridging is a method used to make multiple-race and single-race data collection systems sufficiently comparable to permit estimation and analysis of race-specific statistics. The National Center for Health Statistics releases bridged-race population estimates of the resident population of the United States for use in calculating vital rates.

With a probabilistic rule, an individual is randomly assigned to one and only one of the possible racial categories according to a set of probabilities. For example, a probabilistic rule might assign an AIAN/White multiple-race individual to either the AIAN category or the White category with probabilities of 0.5 and 0.5. Thus, an AIAN/White individual would have a 50 percent chance of being allocated to AIAN and a 50 percent chance of being allocated to White. The result would be that about 50 percent of the AIAN/White individuals would be assigned to the AIAN category and about 50 percent would be assigned to the White category. [https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/series/sr_02/sr02_135.pdf](https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/series/sr_02/sr02_135.pdf)